import in cloud: add the doc about how to upload local files (#11671)
pingcap/docs: tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-upload-local-files.md

---

> title: Upload Local Files to TiDB Cloud

Reviewer: ditto

> title: Upload Local Files to TiDB Cloud

Reviewer 2: Import Local File to TiDB Cloud

> title: Upload Local Files to TiDB Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
title: Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud
```

> summary: Learn how to upload local files to TiDB Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
summary: Learn how to import local files to TiDB Cloud.
```

---

> # Upload Local Files to TiDB Cloud

Reviewer 2: Import Local File to TiDB Cloud

> # Upload Local Files to TiDB Cloud

Author: ```suggestion
# Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud
```

You can upload local files to TiDB Cloud directly. You only need to select a local file, select the target cluster and table, make changes if needed, and then directly import the data into TiDB Cloud.

This feature now supports the following:

- Uploading one CSV file within 50 MiB for one task
- Only Serverless Tier clusters

## Prerequisites

- Prepare the local file to be uploaded. The file must be in CSV format within 50 MiB.

> - Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database. The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, you can create a table when filling in the import task.

Reviewer 2: Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database in advance.The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, You can enter the table name in the Import task and let the program help you automatically create the target table.

> - Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database. The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, you can create a table when filling in the import task.

Author: ```suggestion
- Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database in advance. The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, you can enter the table name in the import task and let TiDB Cloud help you automatically create the target table.
```

> - Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database in advance. The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, you can enter the table name in the import task and let TiDB Cloud help you automatically create the target table.

Reviewer 3: Pre-creating a table is not a prerequisite.  Here are the prerequisites: 
Since the CSV data can be imported into an existing table or into a new table, if the CSV data will be imported into an existing table, make sure the column order of the CSV file is the same as the column lists of the target table.

> - Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database in advance. The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, you can enter the table name in the import task and let TiDB Cloud help you automatically create the target table.

Author: ```suggestion
- You can import the CSV file into an existing table or into a new table. If you import the CSV file into an existing table, make sure the column order of the CSV file is the same as the column lists of the target table.
```

> ## Upload local files

Author: ```suggestion
## Import local files
```

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters), and choose your target project on the top of the left navigation bar.

2. Locate your target cluster, click ... in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**.

3. On the **Import** page, click the **Import Data** button in the upper-right corner, and then select **From local**.

> 4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. One task only supports uploading one file within 50 MiB.

Reviewer 2: One task only supports uploading one CSV file within 50 MiB.

> 4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. One task only supports uploading one file within 50 MiB.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. One task only supports uploading one CSV file within 50 MiB.
```

> 4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. One task only supports uploading one CSV file within 50 MiB.

Reviewer 3: The file name should have a `.csv` suffix, and should be within 50 MiB

> 4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. One task only supports uploading one CSV file within 50 MiB.

Author: ```suggestion
4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. Note that the file name must have a “。csv” suffix and must be less than 50 MiB.
```

Reviewer 3: There are Chinese characters in it:  "“。"

> 5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If the table does not exist yet, you can directly enter a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.

Reviewer 2: If the database or tables does not exist yet,you can directly enter a database name or table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.

> 5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If the table does not exist yet, you can directly enter a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If the database or the table does not exist yet, you can directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.
```

> 5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If the database or the table does not exist yet, you can directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table.  If the data will be imported into an existing table, choose the database name and table name in the drop-down list.  If a new database or a new table needs to be created, you can directly enter a database name or a table name you want, as shown in the following screenshot.  The system will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the column name configured. Click **Next**.
```

    ![Upload local files](/media/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-upload-local-files.png)

6. Configure the table.

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Here the users can see a list of possible columns information and configure it.  In each line, it shows the column name (if it can be inferred), column type inferred, and the previewed data from the CSV file.  

If the data is to be imported to an existing table, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and CSV previewed data is mapped to corresponding columns by column name.  If a new table will be created, the column list is extracted from the CSV file, and the column type will also be inferred.  For example, if the previewed data are all integers, the inferred column type will be an integer.
```

>     If you want to use the first row as the column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**. You can click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/naming-conventions-for-data-import.md).

Reviewer 2: If you want to use the first row  of the CSV file as the column names

>     If you want to use the first row as the column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**. You can click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/naming-conventions-for-data-import.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    If you want to use the first row the CSV file as the column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**. You can click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/naming-conventions-for-data-import.md).
```

>     If you want to use the first row the CSV file as the column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**. You can click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/csv-config-for-import-data.md).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    If your first row in the CSV file is column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**, which is by default selected.  If CSV file has no columns, please unselect **Use the first row as Column Name**.  In this case: 
    * If the table needs to be created, you need to input the names for each column.
    * If an existing table will be imported, you need to make sure the column sequence is the same as the column list of the target table.
    You can also click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration for more fine-grained control. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/csv-config-for-import-data.md).
```

>     If your table is newly created on the previous step, you can change the column names and data types here.

Reviewer 2: If your table is to be created by the program, you can change the column names and data types here.

>     If your table is newly created on the previous step, you can change the column names and data types here.

Author: ```suggestion
    If you want to let TiDB Cloud create the table for you, you can change the column names and data types here.
```

>     If you want to use the first row the CSV file as the column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**. You can click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/naming-conventions-for-data-import.md).

Author: ```suggestion
    If you want to use the first row the CSV file as the column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**. You can click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/csv-config-for-import-data.md).
```

This feature now supports the following:

- Uploading one CSV file within 50 MiB for one task
- Only Serverless Tier clusters

## Prerequisites

- Prepare the local file to be uploaded. The file must be in CSV format within 50 MiB.
- Use [SQL Editor](/develop/dev-guide-tidb-crud-sql.md#explore-sql-with-tidb) to create a table in the target database. The table schema must be consistent with the local file. Alternatively, you can create a table when filling in the import task.

## Upload local files

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters), and choose your target project on the top of the left navigation bar.

2. Locate your target cluster, click ... in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**.

3. On the **Import** page, click the **Import Data** button in the upper-right corner, and then select **From local**.

4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. One task only supports uploading one file within 50 MiB.

> 5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If the table does not exist yet, you can directly enter a table to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If the table does not exist yet, you can directly enter a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. Click **Next**.
```

---
title: Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud
summary: Learn how to import local files to TiDB Cloud.
---

# Import Local Files to TiDB Cloud

> You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. You only need to select a local file, select the target cluster and table, make changes if needed, and then directly import the data into TiDB Cloud.

Author: ```suggestion
You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. It only takes a few seconds to complete the task configuration, and then the data will be imported to TiDB immediately. You no longer need to configure the cloud storage bucket path, ARN Role authorization or other complicated operations. Importing data to TiDB Cloud is quick and smooth.
```

> You can import local files to TiDB Cloud directly. You only need to select a local file, select the target cluster and table, make changes if needed, and then directly import the data into TiDB Cloud.

Author: Updated

This feature now supports the following:

- Importing one CSV file within 50 MiB for one task

> - Only Serverless Tier clusters

Author: Yes changed to Limitations

## Prerequisites

> - Prepare the local file to be imported. The file must be in CSV format within 50 MiB.

Author: Yes will support other formats in future.

- You can import the CSV file into an existing table or into a new table. If you import the CSV file into an existing table, make sure that the order of the columns in the CSV file is the same as that in the target table.

## Import local files

1. Log in to the [TiDB Cloud console](https://tidbcloud.com/console/clusters), and choose your target project on the top of the left navigation bar.

2. Locate your target cluster, click ... in the upper-right corner of the cluster area, and select **Import Data**.

3. On the **Import** page, click the **Import Data** button in the upper-right corner, and then select **From local**.

4. Click the **Upload File** button to select and upload the local file. Note that the file name must have a “.csv” suffix and must be less than 50 MiB.

> 5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If you want to import the data into an existing table, choose the database name and table name in the drop-down list. If you want to create a new database or a new table, you can directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. Click **Next**.

Author: ```suggestion
5. In the **Target Cluster** section, select the target database and the target table. If you want to import the data into an existing table, choose the database name and table name in the drop-down list. If you want to create a new database or a new table, you can directly enter a database name or a table name to create one, as shown in the following screenshot. TiDB Cloud will automatically create the database and the table according to the CSV data and the configured column name. The valid characters can be: ^[0-9A-Za-z][0-9A-Za-z_-]{0,59}$

    
    Click **Next**.
```

    ![Upload local files](/media/tidb-cloud/tidb-cloud-upload-local-files.png)

> 6. Configure the table.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
6. Configure the source and target tables.

```

Author: There's only one target table. The source is a CSV file.

> Here you can see a list of possible columns and configure it. Each row shows the column name (if it can be inferred by TiDB Cloud), the column type inferred, and the previewed data from the CSV file.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Here you can see a list of configurable table columns. Each line shows the table column name (if it can be inferred by TiDB Cloud), the table column type inferred, and the previewed data from the CSV file.  
```

> If you import the data into an existing table, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and the previewed data is mapped to the corresponding columns by column names. If a new table will be created, the column list is extracted from the CSV file, and the column type is inferred by TiDB Cloud. For example, if the previewed data is all integers, the inferred column type will be **int** (integer).

Reviewer 4: 这两句是否可以用 note 格式作为参考信息呢？
```suggestion
- If you import data into an existing table, the column list is extracted from the table definition, and the previewed data is mapped to the corresponding columns by column names.
- If you want to create a new table, the column list is extracted from the CSV file, and the column type is inferred by TiDB Cloud. For example, if the previewed data is all integers, the inferred column type will be **int** (integer).
```

>     If your first row in the CSV file is column names, select **Use the first row as Column Name**, which is selected by default. If the CSV file has no columns, do not select **Use the first row as Column Name**. In this case: 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    - If your first row in the CSV file is column names, make sure that **Use the first row as Column Name** is selected, which is selected by default.
    - If the CSV file has no columns, do not select **Use the first row as Column Name**. In this case:
```

>     * If the table needs to be created, you need to input the names for each column.

Author: ```suggestion
    * If the table needs to be created, you need to input the names for each column. The valid characters can be: ^[0-9A-Za-z][0-9A-Za-z_-]{0,59}$
```

>     * If the table needs to be created, you need to input the names for each column.
>     * If the table already exists, you need to make sure the order of the columns is the same as the column list of the target table.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    * If the table is not created, input the names for each column.
    * If the table already exists, make sure the order of the columns is the same as the column list of the target table.
```

>     You can also click **Edit CSV configuration** to edit the CSV configuration for more fine-grained control. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/csv-config-for-import-data.md).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    To edit the CSV configuration for more fine-grained control, you can also click **Edit CSV configuration**. For more information about the CSV configuration, see [CSV Configurations for Importing Data](/tidb-cloud/csv-config-for-import-data.md).
```

>     If you want to let TiDB Cloud create the table for you, you can change the column names and data types here.

Reviewer 4: Where is "here"?

Author: It means the current page. Deleted to avoid confusion.

>     If you want to let TiDB Cloud create the table for you, you can change the column names and data types here.

Author: ```suggestion
    If you want to let TiDB Cloud create the table for you, you can change the column names and data types.
```

>     Click **Next**.

Reviewer 4: need 4 spaces of indentation

> 7. Click **Start Import**. You can view the import progress on the **Import Progress** section. If there are warnings or failed tasks, you can check to view the details and solve them.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
7. Click **Start Import**.

    You can view the import progress in the **Import Progress** section. If there are warnings or failed tasks, you can check to view the details and solve them.
```
